All right, let's get to it.
We're going to build out our first workflow that's going to make sure that we build an image for the
service.
Push the Docker hub, all that stuff back over on my GitHub repo.
I'm going to find the Actions tab.
And then I'm going to make a new workflow.
Once a year, I can either click on set up the simple workflow or I can take any other.
Again, it doesn't matter because we're going to delete everything and build it back up from scratch.
You can click on any of the setup workflow buttons come to this window.
We're going to delete all the code inside there and we'll also rename the file itself.
So we're going to use nomenclature here of the ploy.
And then the name of the service.
The first service that we're going to try to work on deployment for is the service, of course.
So we're going to call this new file.
Deploy.
Dash off.
Dot html.
Then inside of here, we're going to put together our config that's going to dictate when we run this
workflow and exactly what it's going to do.
I'm going to first put in the name property which will be deployed off.
Well then put in on to dictate when this thing should be executed.
So we want to run this thing and this is going to be a little bit not quite make sense, but we're going
to run this whenever there is a push.
Bonnie Branch.
Of Dash Master.
And we're also going to set up a filter here to say that we only want to run this when something inside
of the directory changes.
Though under push on the same level of indentation as branches are going to put in paths and then a
dash and off slash star star like so.
You might be curious, why are we putting push here?
Well, whenever we close or merge a pull request that actually counts as a push directly to the master
branch.
So this little check right here is going to run this workflow whenever we merge a pull request into
the master branch.
It's also only going to run if it contains a change to something inside of that off directory.
All right.
So after that.
We're going to go back to the top level of indentation if this editor will cooperate with me.
There we go.
And we'll enter in jobs.
We're going to provide a job ID.
So this is just the name of the job we're going to use built.
I'm not super picky on this build.
Technically on our test workflow was not most ideal.
We probably should have called it test, but it's not a big difference.
Then we're going to enter in here.
And let me zoom in just a little bit further to make sure this is super legible.
We're going to enter in runs on the wound to latest.
And then we'll define a series of steps.
The first step we want to run here is check out all of our code inside of our repo.
For that, we're going to say uses.
Action slash checkout at V two.
After that, I'm going to put in another dash and we're going to run a command right here.
The command that we're going to run is essentially going to go through this process.
We're going to build out our image and then push it off to Docker Hub.
Whenever we make use of this Ubuntu latest operating system as the base, really it is again a container,
so it's technically an image as opposed to anything else.
It comes with docker already pre-installed so we can make use of all the Docker commands we are already
familiar with.
The for example, we will do a change into the directory and do a docker build t your docker id slash
off dot.
But technically we don't have to change into the directory.
We actually can run the Docker, build command and then say, oh yeah, just go into the auth folder.
So instead of right there, we can put in off.
But personally, I'd kind of like just changing into the folder.
It just leaves the Docker build command very easy and simple to read.
After we build the image, we're then going to take the image and push it off to Docker Hub.
So remember to push an image to Docker Hub.
We must be logged in to the Docker CLI.
The Docker Calli must know who you are, what your Docker account is.
So before we can push it off to Docker Hub, we have to log in to the Docker CLI.
But remember, this entire script right here is not being executed on your machine.
It is being ran inside of some container managed by GitHub.
So we have to somehow tell Docker to log in using your username and password.
Of course we are not going to enter your Docker username and password directly into the script.
Instead, we're going to add your username and password as a secret into your GitHub repository itself.
Once we add it in as an encrypted secret to your repository, we can then reference that in a secure
fashion inside of the script.
So let me show you how we're going to do that.
At the top of the screen, on the right hand side, I'm going to find settings for this individual repository.
I'm going to open that inside of a new tab.
Then once you're on the left hand side, I'm going to scroll down and find secrets.
Well, then add a new secret.
And this is where we are going to individually add in the password and username for your Docker hub
account.
Now once you add it in here, no one else is going to be able to easily see this information.
So it is absolutely okay.
And this is 100% is where we would want to enter in some protected information like a password.
So we're going to enter in a name of Docker, underscore username.
And we'll put our username right here in as the value.
So for me, my docker username is Stephen Grider.
I'm going to add that as a secret.
And then going to add in a second secret for my password.
The Docker underscore password.
Now, just so you do not see my password, I'm not going to show or I'm not going to enter in my password
right now.
But you can believe that after this video is over, I'm going to enter in my password here and click
on Add Secret.
So after that, we will have access to our doctor username and password inside of our script.
But here's the script we were just working on.
So how do we use those secrets to actually log into Docker?
Well, let me show you exactly how we're going to enter in a new dash statement here.
We're going to enter in run.
We're going to say docker log in.
Dash you dollar sign.
Docker underscore username.
And P dollar sign docker underscore password.
Now we are referencing Docker username and password as environment variables.
When we add in a secret to repository, as we did just a moment ago, those do not automatically get
added into the script as environment variables.
Instead, we have to tell GitHub that we want those two secrets to be added as specifically environment
variable called DRS name and Docker password.
So to do so on the next line down without adding in an additional dash.
So notice how there's no dash here.
I'm going to enter an E and be.
And I'm going to say that I want to have an environment variable inside of my script called Docker Username.
And I want that to come from.
Dollar sign.
Really?
Brace.
Curly brace.
Secrets.
Dot Docker.
Username closing curly braces.
And then I'm going to repeat the same thing for Docker password.
And dollar sign.
Curly braces.
Secrets dot docker password.
Now, this kind of stuff right here is where I have found that people in courses a billion times over
always tend to make typos.
So I beg you, please double check your spelling.
Double check the number of curly braces.
Make sure you've got all capitals here except for on secrets.
Of course, just double check the section, because I can guarantee you this is going to be a location
where many people make a very subtle, small typo.
So after we run the step, we should now be authenticated with Docker and we can now push the image
that we had just created in the last step.
So we can then add in another.
Dash down here and we can run the command docker push.
And in my case will be Steven Grider off.
All right.
So that should take us all the way through to this step right here.
And I think that this would be a really good place to pause and then try to test all this stuff out
in the next video just to make sure that we are able to build a new image and push it off.
So let's take a pause right here and continue in just a moment.